

"That's a good idea." I got up. "Come on, Tom. Nobody wants a drink."

"I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to tell me."

"Your wife doesn't love you," said Gatsby. "She's never loved you.
She loves me."

"You must be crazy!" exclaimed Tom automatically.

Gatsby sprang to his feet, vivid with excitement.

"She never loved you, do you hear?" he cried. "She only married you
because I was poor and she was tired of waiting for me. It was a terrible
mistake, but in her heart she never loved any one except me!"

At this point Jordan and I tried to go but Tom and Gatsby insisted with
competitive firmness that we remain--as though neither of them had
anything to conceal and it would be a privilege to partake vicariously
of their emotions.

"Sit down Daisy." Tom's voice groped unsuccessfully for the paternal
note. "What's been going on? I want to hear all about it."

"I told you what's been going on," said Gatsby. "Going on for five
years--and you didn't know."

Tom turned to Daisy sharply.

"You've been seeing this fellow for five years?"

"Not seeing," said Gatsby. "No, we couldn't meet. But both of us loved
each other all that time, old sport, and you didn't know. I used to laugh
sometimes--"but there was no laughter in his eyes, "to think that you
didn't know."

"Oh--that's all." Tom tapped his thick fingers together like a clergyman
and leaned back in his chair.

"You're crazy!" he exploded. "I can't speak about what happened five years
ago, because I didn't know Daisy then--and I'll be damned if I see how you
got within a mile of her unless you brought the groceries to the back
door. But all the rest of that's a God Damned lie. Daisy loved me when
she married me and she loves me now."

"No," said Gatsby, shaking his head.

"She does, though. The trouble is that sometimes she gets foolish ideas
in her head and doesn't know what she's doing." He nodded sagely. "And
what's more, I love Daisy too. Once in a while I go off on a spree
and make a fool of myself, but I always come back, and in my heart I
love her all the time."

"You're revolting," said Daisy. She turned to me, and her voice,
dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrilling scorn: "Do you
know why we left Chicago? I'm surprised that they didn't treat you to
the story of that little spree."

Gatsby walked over and stood beside her.

"Daisy, that's all over now," he said earnestly. "It doesn't matter any
more. Just tell him the truth--that you never loved him--and it's all
wiped out forever."

She looked at him blindly. "Why,--how could I love him--possibly?"

"You never loved him."

She hesitated. Her eyes fell on Jordan and me with a sort of appeal,
as though she realized at last what she was doing--and as though she had
never, all along, intended doing anything at all. But it was done now.
It was too late.

"I never loved him," she said, with perceptible reluctance.

"Not at Kapiolani?" demanded Tom suddenly.

"No."

From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocating chords were drifting up
on hot waves of air.

"Not that day I carried you down from the Punch Bowl to keep your shoes
dry?" There was a husky tenderness in his tone. ". . . Daisy?"

"Please don't." Her voice was cold, but the rancour was gone from it.
She looked at Gatsby. "There, Jay," she said--but her hand as she tried
to light a cigarette was trembling. Suddenly she threw the cigarette and
the burning match on the carpet.

"Oh, you want too much!" she cried to Gatsby. "I love you now--isn't that
enough? I can't help what's past." She began to sob helplessly.
"I did love him once--but I loved you too."

Gatsby's eyes opened and closed.

"You loved me TOO?" he repeated.

"Even that's a lie," said Tom savagely. "She didn't know you were alive.
Why,--there're things between Daisy and me that you'll never know,
things that neither of us can ever forget."

The words seemed to bite physically into Gatsby.

"I want to speak to Daisy alone," he insisted. "She's all excited now----"

"Even alone I can't say I never loved Tom," she admitted in a pitiful
voice. "It wouldn't be true."

"Of course it wouldn't," agreed Tom.

She turned to her husband.

"As if it mattered to you," she said.

"Of course it matters. I'm going to take better care of you from now on."

"You don't understand," said Gatsby, with a touch of panic. "You're not
going to take care of her any more."

"I'm not?" Tom opened his eyes wide and laughed. He could afford to
control himself now. "Why's that?"

"Daisy's leaving you."

"Nonsense."

"I am, though," she said with a visible effort.

"She's not leaving me!" Tom's words suddenly leaned down over Gatsby.
"Certainly not for a common swindler who'd have to steal the ring he
put on her finger."

"I won't stand this!" cried Daisy. "Oh, please let's get out."

"Who are you, anyhow?" broke out Tom. "You're one of that bunch that
hangs around with Meyer Wolfsheim--that much I happen to know. I've made
a little investigation into your affairs--and I'll carry it further
tomorrow."

"You can suit yourself about that, old sport." said Gatsby steadily.

"I found out what your 'drug stores' were." He turned to us and spoke
rapidly. "He and this Wolfsheim bought up a lot of side-street drug stores
here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the counter. That's one of
his little stunts. I picked him for a bootlegger the first time I saw
him and I wasn't far wrong."

"What about it?" said Gatsby politely. "I guess your friend Walter Chase
wasn't too proud to come in on it."

"And you left him in the lurch, didn't you? You let him go to jail for
a month over in New Jersey. God! You ought to hear Walter on the subject
of YOU."

"He came to us dead broke. He was very glad to pick up some money, old
sport."

"Don't you call me 'old sport'!" cried Tom. Gatsby said nothing.
"Walter could have you up on the betting laws too, but Wolfsheim scared
him into shutting his mouth."

That unfamiliar yet recognizable look was back again in Gatsby's face.

"That drug store business was just small change," continued Tom slowly,
"but you've got something on now that Walter's afraid to tell me
about."

I glanced at Daisy who was staring terrified between Gatsby
and her husband and at Jordan who had begun to balance an invisible
but absorbing object on the tip of her chin. Then I turned back to
Gatsby--and was startled at his expression. He looked--and this is said
in all contempt for the babbled slander of his garden--as if he had
"killed a man." For a moment the set of his face could be described in
just that fantastic way.

It passed, and he began to talk excitedly to Daisy, denying everything,
defending his name against accusations that had not been made. But with
every word she was drawing further and further into herself, so he gave
that up and only the dead dream fought on as the afternoon slipped
away, trying to touch what was no longer tangible, struggling
unhappily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across the room.

The voice begged again to go.

"PLEASE, Tom! I can't stand this any more."

Her frightened eyes told that whatever intentions, whatever courage
she had had, were definitely gone.

"You two start on home, Daisy," said Tom. "In Mr. Gatsby's car."

She looked at Tom, alarmed now, but he insisted with magnanimous scorn.

"Go on. He won't annoy you. I think he realizes that his presumptuous
little flirtation is over."

They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made accidental, isolated,
like ghosts even from our pity.

After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the unopened bottle of
whiskey in the towel.

"Want any of this stuff? Jordan? . . . Nick?"

I didn't answer.

"Nick?" He asked again.

"What?"

"Want any?"

"No . . . I just remembered that today's my birthday."

I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous menacing road of a
new decade.

It was seven o'clock when we got into the coupé with him and started
for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exulting and laughing, but his
voice was as remote from Jordan and me as the foreign clamor on the
sidewalk or the tumult of the elevated overhead. Human sympathy
has its limits and we were content to let all their tragic arguments
fade with the city lights behind. Thirty--the promise of a decade
of loneliness, a thinning list of single men to know, a thinning
brief-case of enthusiasm, thinning hair. But there was Jordan beside
me who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever to carry well-forgotten
dreams from age to age. As we passed over the dark bridge her wan face
fell lazily against my coat's shoulder and the formidable stroke of
thirty died away with the reassuring pressure of her hand.

So we drove on toward death through the cooling twilight.


The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint beside the
ashheaps was the principal witness at the inquest. He had slept through
the heat until after five, when he strolled over to the garage and
found George Wilson sick in his office--really sick, pale as his own
pale hair and shaking all over. Michaelis advised him to go to bed but
Wilson refused, saying that he'd miss a lot of business if he did.
While his neighbor was trying to persuade him a violent racket broke
out overhead.

"I've got my wife locked in up there," explained Wilson calmly.
"She's going to stay there till the day after tomorrow and then we're
going to move away."

Michaelis was astonished; they had been neighbors for four years and
Wilson had never seemed faintly capable of such a statement. Generally
he was one of these worn-out men: when he wasn't working he sat on a
chair in the doorway and stared at the people and the cars that passed
along the road. When any one spoke to him he invariably laughed in an
agreeable, colorless way. He was his wife's man and not his own.

So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had happened, but Wilson
wouldn't say a word--instead he began to throw curious, suspicious
glances at his visitor and ask him what he'd been doing at certain
times on certain days. Just as the latter was getting uneasy some
workmen came past the door bound for his restaurant and Michaelis took
the opportunity to get away, intending to come back later. But he didn't.
He supposed he forgot to, that's all. When he came outside again
a little after seven he was reminded of the conversation because he
heard Mrs. Wilson's voice, loud and scolding, downstairs in the garage.

"Beat me!" he heard her cry. "Throw me down and beat me, you dirty
little coward!"

A moment later she rushed out into the dusk, waving her hands and
shouting; before he could move from his door the business was over.

The "death car" as the newspapers called it, didn't stop; it came out
of the gathering darkness, wavered tragically for a moment and then
disappeared around the next bend. Michaelis wasn't even sure of its
color--he told the first policeman that it was light green. The other
car, the one going toward New York, came to rest a hundred yards
beyond, and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, her life
violently extinguished, knelt in the road and mingled her thick, dark
blood with the dust.

Michaelis and this man reached her first but when they had torn open
her shirtwaist still damp with perspiration, they saw that her left
breast was swinging loose like a flap and there was no need to listen
for the heart beneath. The mouth was wide open and ripped at the
corners as though she had choked a little in giving up the tremendous
vitality she had stored so long.


We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowd when we were still
some distance away.

"Wreck!" said Tom. "That's good. Wilson'll have a little business
at last."

He slowed down, but still without any intention of stopping until,
as we came nearer, the hushed intent faces of the people at the garage
door made him automatically put on the brakes.

"We'll take a look," he said doubtfully, "just a look."

I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which issued incessantly
from the garage, a sound which as we got out of the coupé and walked
toward the door resolved itself into the words "Oh, my God!" uttered over
and over in a gasping moan.

"There's some bad trouble here," said Tom excitedly.

He reached up on tiptoes and peered over a circle of heads into the
garage which was lit only by a yellow light in a swinging wire basket
overhead. Then he made a harsh sound in his throat and with a violent
thrusting movement of his powerful arms pushed his way through.

The circle closed up again with a running murmur of expostulation; it
was a minute before I could see anything at all. Then new arrivals
disarranged the line and Jordan and I were pushed suddenly inside.

Myrtle Wilson's body wrapped in a blanket and then in another
blanket as though she suffered from a chill in the hot night lay on a
work table by the wall and Tom, with his back to us, was bending over
it, motionless. Next to him stood a motorcycle policeman taking down
names with much sweat and correction in a little book. At first I
couldn't find the source of the high, groaning words that echoed
clamorously through the bare garage--then I saw Wilson standing on the
raised threshold of his office, swaying back and forth and holding to
the doorposts with both hands. Some man was talking to him in a low
voice and attempting from time to time to lay a hand on his shoulder,
but Wilson neither heard nor saw. His eyes would drop slowly from the
swinging light to the laden table by the wall and then jerk back to
the light again and he gave out incessantly his high horrible call.

"O, my Ga-od! O, my Ga-od! Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!"

Presently Tom lifted his head with a jerk and after staring around the
garage with glazed eyes addressed a mumbled incoherent remark to the
policeman.

"M-a-v--" the policeman was saying, "--o----"

"No,--r--" corrected the man, "M-a-v-r-o----"

"Listen to me!" muttered Tom fiercely.

"r--" said the policeman, "o----"

"g----"

"g--" He looked up as Tom's broad hand fell sharply on his shoulder.
"What you want, fella?"

"What happened--that's what I want to know!"

"Auto hit her. Ins'antly killed."

"Instantly killed," repeated Tom, staring.

"She ran out ina road. Son-of-a-bitch didn't even stopus car."

"There was two cars," said Michaelis, "one comin', one goin', see?"

"Going where?" asked the policeman keenly.

"One goin' each way. Well, she--" His hand rose toward the blankets but
stopped half way and fell to his side, "--she ran out there an' the one
comin' from N'York knock right into her goin' thirty or forty miles an
hour."

"What's the name of this place here?" demanded the officer.

"Hasn't got any name."

A pale, well-dressed Negro stepped near.

"It was a yellow car," he said, "big yellow car. New."

"See the accident?" asked the policeman.

"No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster'n forty. Going
fifty, sixty."

"Come here and let's have your name. Look out now. I want to get his
name."

Some words of this conversation must have reached Wilson swaying
in the office door, for suddenly a new theme found voice among
his gasping cries.

"You don't have to tell me what kind of car it was! I know what kind of
car it was!"

Watching Tom I saw the wad of muscle back of his shoulder tighten
under his coat. He walked quickly over to Wilson and standing
in front of him seized him firmly by the upper arms.

"You've got to pull yourself together," he said with soothing
gruffness.

Wilson's eyes fell upon Tom; he started up on his tiptoes and then
would have collapsed to his knees had not Tom held him upright.

"Listen," said Tom, shaking him a little. "I just got here a minute ago,
from New York. I was bringing you that coupé we've been talking about.
That yellow car I was driving this afternoon wasn't mine, do you hear? I
haven't seen it all afternoon."

Only the Negro and I were near enough to hear what he said but the
policeman caught something in the tone and looked over with truculent
eyes.

"What's all that?" he demanded.

"I'm a friend of his." Tom turned his head but kept his hands firm on
Wilson's body. "He says he knows the car that did it. . . . It was a yellow
car."

Some dim impulse moved the policeman to look suspiciously at Tom.

"And what color's your car?"

"It's a blue car, a coupé."

"We've come straight from New York," I said.

Some one who had been driving a little behind us confirmed this and
the policeman turned away.

"Now, if you'll let me have that name again correct----"

Picking up Wilson like a doll Tom carried him into the office,
set him down in a chair and came back.

"If somebody'll come here and sit with him!" he snapped
authoritatively. He watched while the two men standing closest glanced
at each other and went unwillingly into the room. Then Tom shut the
door on them and came down the single step, his eyes avoiding the
table. As he passed close to me he whispered "Let's get out."

Self consciously, with his authoritative arms breaking the way, we
pushed through the still gathering crowd, passing a hurried doctor,
case in hand, who had been sent for in wild hope half an hour ago.

Tom drove slowly until we were beyond the bend--then his foot came down
hard and the coupé raced along through the night. In a little while I
heard a low husky sob and saw that the tears were overflowing down his
face.

"The God Damn coward!" he whimpered. "He didn't even stop his car."


The Buchanans' house floated suddenly toward us through the dark rustling
trees. Tom stopped beside the porch and looked up at the second floor
where two windows bloomed with light among the vines.

"Daisy's home," he said. As we got out of the car he glanced at me and
frowned slightly.

"I ought to have dropped you in West Egg, Nick. There's nothing we can
do tonight."

A change had come over him and he spoke gravely, and with decision.
As we walked across the moonlight gravel to the porch he disposed of
the situation in a few brisk phrases.

"I'll telephone for a taxi to take you home, and while you're waiting
you and Jordan better go in the kitchen and have them get you some
supper--if you want any." He opened the door. "Come in."

"No thanks. But I'd be glad if you'd order me the taxi. I'll wait
outside."

Jordan put her hand on my arm.

"Won't you come in, Nick?"

"No thanks."

I was feeling a little sick and I wanted to be alone. But Jordan lingered
for a moment more.

"It's only half past nine," she said.

I'd be damned if I'd go in; I'd had enough of all of them for one day
and suddenly that included Jordan too. She must have seen something of
this in my expression for she turned abruptly away and ran up the
porch steps into the house. I sat down for a few minutes with my head
in my hands, until I heard the phone taken up inside and the butler's
voice calling a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away from the
house intending to wait by the gate.

I hadn't gone twenty yards when I heard my name and Gatsby stepped from
between two bushes into the path. I must have felt pretty weird by that
time because I could think of nothing except the luminosity of his
pink suit under the moon.

"What are you doing?" I inquired.

"Just standing here, old sport."

Somehow, that seemed a despicable occupation. For all I knew he was going
to rob the house in a moment; I wouldn't have been surprised to see
sinister faces, the faces of "Wolfsheim's people," behind him in the
dark shrubbery.

"Did you see any trouble on the road?" he asked after a minute.

"Yes."

He hesitated.

"Was she killed?"

"Yes."

"I thought so; I told Daisy I thought so. It's better that the shock
should all come at once. She stood it pretty well."

He spoke as if Daisy's reaction was the only thing that mattered.

"I got to West Egg by a side road," he went on, "and left the car in my
garage. I don't think anybody saw us but of course I can't be sure."

I disliked him so much by this time that I didn't find it necessary to
tell him he was wrong.

"Who was the woman?" he inquired.

"Her name was Wilson. Her husband owns the garage. How the devil did it
happen?"

"Well, I tried to swing the wheel----" He broke off, and suddenly I
guessed at the truth.

"Was Daisy driving?"

"Yes," he said after a moment, "but of course I'll say I was. You see,
when we left New York she was very nervous and she thought it would
steady her to drive--and this woman rushed out at us just as we were
passing a car coming the other way. It all happened in a minute but it
seemed to me that she wanted to speak to us, thought we were somebody
she knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the woman toward the other
car, and then she lost her nerve and turned back. The second my hand
reached the wheel I felt the shock--it must have killed her instantly."

"It ripped her open----"

"Don't tell me, old sport." He winced. "Anyhow--Daisy stepped on it.
I tried to make her stop, but she couldn't so I pulled on the emergency
brake. Then she fell over into my lap and I drove on.

"She'll be all right tomorrow," he said presently. "I'm just going to
wait here and see if he tries to bother her about that unpleasantness
this afternoon. She's locked herself into her room and if he tries any
brutality she's going to turn the light out and on again."

"He won't touch her," I said. "He's not thinking about her."

"I don't trust him, old sport."

"How long are you going to wait?"

"All night if necessary. Anyhow till they all go to bed."

A new point of view occurred to me. Suppose Tom found out that Daisy had
been driving. He might think he saw a connection in it--he might think
anything. I looked at the house: there were two or three bright windows
downstairs and the pink glow from Daisy's room on the second floor.

"You wait here," I said. "I'll see if there's any sign of a commotion."

I walked back along the border of the lawn, traversed the gravel softly
and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The drawing-room curtains were open,
and I saw that the room was empty. Crossing the porch where we had dined
that June night three months before I came to a small rectangle of light
which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind was drawn but I found
a rift at the sill.

Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at the kitchen table
with a plate of cold fried chicken between them and two bottles of
ale. He was talking intently across the table at her and in his
earnestness his hand had fallen upon and covered her own. Once in a
while she looked up at him and nodded in agreement.

They weren't happy, and neither of them had touched the chicken or the
ale--and yet they weren't unhappy either. There was an unmistakable air
of natural intimacy about the picture and anybody would have said that
they were conspiring together.

As I tiptoed from the porch I heard my taxi feeling its way along the
dark road toward the house. Gatsby was waiting where I had left him in
the drive.

"Is it all quiet up there?" he asked anxiously.

"Yes, it's all quiet." I hesitated. "You'd better come home and get
some sleep."

He shook his head.

"I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night, old sport."

He put his hands in his coat pockets and turned back eagerly to his
scrutiny of the house, as though my presence marred the sacredness of
the vigil. So I walked away and left him standing there in the
moonlight--watching over nothing.




Chapter 8



I couldn't sleep all night; a fog-horn was groaning incessantly on the
Sound, and I tossed half-sick between grotesque reality and savage
frightening dreams. Toward dawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby's drive
and immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress--I felt that I
had something to tell him, something to warn him about and morning
would be too late.

Crossing his lawn I saw that his front door was still open and he was
leaning against a table in the hall, heavy with dejection or sleep.

"Nothing happened," he said wanly. "I waited, and about four o'clock she
came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned out
the light."

His house had never seemed so enormous to me as it did that night when we
hunted through the great rooms for cigarettes. We pushed aside curtains
that were like pavilions and felt over innumerable feet of dark wall for
electric light switches--once I tumbled with a sort of splash upon the
keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable amount of dust
everywhere and the rooms were musty as though they hadn't been aired for
many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar table with two stale dry
cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French windows of the
drawing-room we sat smoking out into the darkness.

"You ought to go away," I said. "It's pretty certain they'll trace
your car."

"Go away NOW, old sport?"

"Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal."

He wouldn't consider it. He couldn't possibly leave Daisy until he knew
what she was going to do. He was clutching at some last hope and I
couldn't bear to shake him free.

It was this night that he told me the strange story of his youth with
Dan Cody--told it to me because "Jay Gatsby" had broken up like glass
against Tom's hard malice and the long secret extravaganza was played
out. I think that he would have acknowledged anything, now, without
reserve, but he wanted to talk about Daisy.

She was the first "nice" girl he had ever known. In various unrevealed
capacities he had come in contact with such people but always
with indiscernible barbed wire between. He found her excitingly
desirable. He went to her house, at first with other officers
from Camp Taylor, then alone. It amazed him--he had never been
in such a beautiful house before. But what gave it an air of breathless
intensity was that Daisy lived there--it was as casual a thing to her
as his tent out at camp was to him. There was a ripe mystery about it,
a hint of bedrooms upstairs more beautiful and cool than other
bedrooms, of gay and radiant activities taking place through its
corridors and of romances that were not musty and laid away already in
lavender but fresh and breathing and redolent of this year's shining
motor cars and of dances whose flowers were scarcely withered. It
excited him too that many men had already loved Daisy--it increased
her value in his eyes. He felt their presence all about the house,
pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still vibrant emotions.

But he knew that he was in Daisy's house by a colossal accident.
However glorious might be his future as Jay Gatsby, he was at present a
penniless young man without a past, and at any moment the invisible
cloak of his uniform might slip from his shoulders. So he made
the most of his time. He took what he could get, ravenously and
unscrupulously--eventually he took Daisy one still October night,
took her because he had no real right to touch her hand.

He might have despised himself, for he had certainly taken her under
false pretenses. I don't mean that he had traded on his phantom
millions, but he had deliberately given Daisy a sense of security; he
let her believe that he was a person from much the same stratum as
herself--that he was fully able to take care of her. As a matter of
fact he had no such facilities--he had no comfortable family standing
behind him and he was liable at the whim of an impersonal government
to be blown anywhere about the world.