
"I don't care!" cried Daisy and began to clog on the brick fireplace.
Then she remembered the heat and sat down guiltily on the couch just as
a freshly laundered nurse leading a little girl came into the room.

"Bles-sed pre-cious," she crooned, holding out her arms. "Come to your
own mother that loves you."

The child, relinquished by the nurse, rushed across the room and rooted
shyly into her mother's dress.

"The Bles-sed pre-cious! Did mother get powder on your old yellowy
hair? Stand up now, and say How-de-do."

Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small reluctant hand.
Afterward he kept looking at the child with surprise. I don't think he had
ever really believed in its existence before.

"I got dressed before luncheon," said the child, turning eagerly to
Daisy.

"That's because your mother wanted to show you off." Her face bent into
the single wrinkle of the small white neck. "You dream, you. You absolute
little dream."

"Yes," admitted the child calmly. "Aunt Jordan's got on a white
dress too."

"How do you like mother's friends?" Daisy turned her around so that she
faced Gatsby. "Do you think they're pretty?"

"Where's Daddy?"

"She doesn't look like her father," explained Daisy. "She looks like me.
She's got my hair and shape of the face."

Daisy sat back upon the couch. The nurse took a step forward and held
out her hand.

"Come, Pammy."

"Goodbye, sweetheart!"

With a reluctant backward glance the well-disciplined child held to her
nurse's hand and was pulled out the door, just as Tom came back,
preceding four gin rickeys that clicked full of ice.

Gatsby took up his drink.

"They certainly look cool," he said, with visible tension.

We drank in long greedy swallows.

"I read somewhere that the sun's getting hotter every year," said Tom
genially. "It seems that pretty soon the earth's going to fall into the
sun--or wait a minute--it's just the opposite--the sun's getting colder
every year.

"Come outside," he suggested to Gatsby, "I'd like you to have a look at
the place."

I went with them out to the veranda. On the green Sound, stagnant in the
heat, one small sail crawled slowly toward the fresher sea. Gatsby's eyes
followed it momentarily; he raised his hand and pointed across the bay.

"I'm right across from you."

"So you are."

Our eyes lifted over the rosebeds and the hot lawn and the weedy refuse
of the dog days along shore. Slowly the white wings of the boat moved
against the blue cool limit of the sky. Ahead lay the scalloped ocean and
the abounding blessed isles.

"There's sport for you," said Tom, nodding. "I'd like to be out there
with him for about an hour."

We had luncheon in the dining-room, darkened, too, against the heat,
and drank down nervous gayety with the cold ale.

"What'll we do with ourselves this afternoon," cried Daisy, "and the
day after that, and the next thirty years?"

"Don't be morbid," Jordan said. "Life starts all over again when it gets
crisp in the fall."

"But it's so hot," insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, "And
everything's so confused. Let's all go to town!"

Her voice struggled on through the heat, beating against it, moulding its
senselessness into forms.

"I've heard of making a garage out of a stable," Tom was saying to
Gatsby, "but I'm the first man who ever made a stable out of a garage."

"Who wants to go to town?" demanded Daisy insistently. Gatsby's eyes
floated toward her. "Ah," she cried, "you look so cool."

Their eyes met, and they stared together at each other, alone in space.
With an effort she glanced down at the table.

"You always look so cool," she repeated.

She had told him that she loved him, and Tom Buchanan saw. He was
astounded. His mouth opened a little and he looked at Gatsby and then
back at Daisy as if he had just recognized her as some one he knew a
long time ago.

"You resemble the advertisement of the man," she went on innocently.
"You know the advertisement of the man----"

"All right," broke in Tom quickly, "I'm perfectly willing to go to
town. Come on--we're all going to town."

He got up, his eyes still flashing between Gatsby and his wife.
No one moved.

"Come on!" His temper cracked a little. "What's the matter, anyhow?
If we're going to town let's start."

His hand, trembling with his effort at self control, bore to his lips the
last of his glass of ale. Daisy's voice got us to our feet and out on
to the blazing gravel drive.

"Are we just going to go?" she objected. "Like this? Aren't we going to
let any one smoke a cigarette first?"

"Everybody smoked all through lunch."

"Oh, let's have fun," she begged him. "It's too hot to fuss."

He didn't answer.

"Have it your own way," she said. "Come on, Jordan."

They went upstairs to get ready while we three men stood there shuffling
the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curve of the moon hovered already
in the western sky. Gatsby started to speak, changed his mind, but not
before Tom wheeled and faced him expectantly.

"Have you got your stables here?" asked Gatsby with an effort.

"About a quarter of a mile down the road."

"Oh."

A pause.

"I don't see the idea of going to town," broke out Tom savagely.
"Women get these notions in their heads----"

"Shall we take anything to drink?" called Daisy from an upper window.

"I'll get some whiskey," answered Tom. He went inside.

Gatsby turned to me rigidly:

"I can't say anything in his house, old sport."

"She's got an indiscreet voice," I remarked. "It's full of----"

I hesitated.

"Her voice is full of money," he said suddenly.

That was it. I'd never understood before. It was full of money--that was
the inexhaustible charm that rose and fell in it, the jingle of it, the
cymbals' song of it. . . . High in a white palace the king's daughter,
the golden girl. . . .

Tom came out of the house wrapping a quart bottle in a towel, followed
by Daisy and Jordan wearing small tight hats of metallic cloth and
carrying light capes over their arms.

"Shall we all go in my car?" suggested Gatsby. He felt the hot, green
leather of the seat. "I ought to have left it in the shade."

"Is it standard shift?" demanded Tom.

"Yes."

"Well, you take my coupé and let me drive your car to town."

The suggestion was distasteful to Gatsby.

"I don't think there's much gas," he objected.

"Plenty of gas," said Tom boisterously. He looked at the gauge.
"And if it runs out I can stop at a drug store. You can buy anything at a
drug store nowadays."

A pause followed this apparently pointless remark. Daisy looked at Tom
frowning and an indefinable expression, at once definitely unfamiliar
and vaguely recognizable, as if I had only heard it described in words,
passed over Gatsby's face.

"Come on, Daisy," said Tom, pressing her with his hand toward Gatsby's
car. "I'll take you in this circus wagon."

He opened the door but she moved out from the circle of his arm.

"You take Nick and Jordan. We'll follow you in the coupé."

She walked close to Gatsby, touching his coat with her hand. Jordan and
Tom and I got into the front seat of Gatsby's car, Tom pushed the
unfamiliar gears tentatively and we shot off into the oppressive heat
leaving them out of sight behind.

"Did you see that?" demanded Tom.

"See what?"

He looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I must have known all
along.

"You think I'm pretty dumb, don't you?" he suggested. "Perhaps I am, but
I have a--almost a second sight, sometimes, that tells me what to do.
Maybe you don't believe that, but science----"

He paused. The immediate contingency overtook him, pulled him back from
the edge of the theoretical abyss.

"I've made a small investigation of this fellow," he continued. "I could
have gone deeper if I'd known----"

"Do you mean you've been to a medium?" inquired Jordan humorously.

"What?" Confused, he stared at us as we laughed. "A medium?"

"About Gatsby."

"About Gatsby! No, I haven't. I said I'd been making a small
investigation of his past."

"And you found he was an Oxford man," said Jordan helpfully.

"An Oxford man!" He was incredulous. "Like hell he is! He wears a
pink suit."

"Nevertheless he's an Oxford man."

"Oxford, New Mexico," snorted Tom contemptuously, "or something like
that."

"Listen, Tom. If you're such a snob, why did you invite him to lunch?"
demanded Jordan crossly.

"Daisy invited him; she knew him before we were married--God knows
where!"

We were all irritable now with the fading ale and, aware of it,
we drove for a while in silence. Then as Doctor T. J. Eckleburg's faded
eyes came into sight down the road, I remembered Gatsby's caution about
gasoline.

"We've got enough to get us to town," said Tom.

"But there's a garage right here," objected Jordan. "I don't want to get
stalled in this baking heat."

Tom threw on both brakes impatiently and we slid to an abrupt
dusty stop under Wilson's sign. After a moment the proprietor emerged
from the interior of his establishment and gazed hollow-eyed at the car.

"Let's have some gas!" cried Tom roughly. "What do you think we stopped
for--to admire the view?"

"I'm sick," said Wilson without moving. "I been sick all day."

"What's the matter?"

"I'm all run down."

"Well, shall I help myself?" Tom demanded. "You sounded well enough
on the phone."

With an effort Wilson left the shade and support of the doorway and,
breathing hard, unscrewed the cap of the tank. In the sunlight his face
was green.

"I didn't mean to interrupt your lunch," he said. "But I need money
pretty bad and I was wondering what you were going to do with your
old car."

"How do you like this one?" inquired Tom. "I bought it last week."

"It's a nice yellow one," said Wilson, as he strained at the handle.

"Like to buy it?"

"Big chance," Wilson smiled faintly. "No, but I could make some money
on the other."

"What do you want money for, all of a sudden?"

"I've been here too long. I want to get away. My wife and I want to
go west."

"Your wife does!" exclaimed Tom, startled.

"She's been talking about it for ten years." He rested for a moment
against the pump, shading his eyes. "And now she's going whether she wants
to or not. I'm going to get her away."

The coupé flashed by us with a flurry of dust and the flash of a
waving hand.

"What do I owe you?" demanded Tom harshly.

"I just got wised up to something funny the last two days," remarked
Wilson. "That's why I want to get away. That's why I been bothering you
about the car."

"What do I owe you?"

"Dollar twenty."

The relentless beating heat was beginning to confuse me and I had
a bad moment there before I realized that so far his suspicions
hadn't alighted on Tom. He had discovered that Myrtle had some
sort of life apart from him in another world and the shock had
made him physically sick. I stared at him and then at Tom, who had made
a parallel discovery less than an hour before--and it occurred to me
that there was no difference between men, in intelligence or race, so
profound as the difference between the sick and the well. Wilson was so
sick that he looked guilty, unforgivably guilty--as if he had just got
some poor girl with child.

"I'll let you have that car," said Tom. "I'll send it over tomorrow
afternoon."

That locality was always vaguely disquieting, even in the broad
glare of afternoon, and now I turned my head as though I had been
warned of something behind. Over the ashheaps the giant eyes of
Doctor T. J. Eckleburg kept their vigil but I perceived, after
a moment, that other eyes were regarding us with peculiar intensity
from less than twenty feet away.

In one of the windows over the garage the curtains had been moved aside
a little and Myrtle Wilson was peering down at the car. So engrossed
was she that she had no consciousness of being observed and one
emotion after another crept into her face like objects into a slowly
developing picture. Her expression was curiously familiar--it was an
expression I had often seen on women's faces but on Myrtle Wilson's
face it seemed purposeless and inexplicable until I realized that her
eyes, wide with jealous terror, were fixed not on Tom, but on Jordan
Baker, whom she took to be his wife.


There is no confusion like the confusion of a simple mind, and as we
drove away Tom was feeling the hot whips of panic. His wife and his
mistress, until an hour ago secure and inviolate, were slipping
precipitately from his control. Instinct made him step on the
accelerator with the double purpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving
Wilson behind, and we sped along toward Astoria at fifty miles an hour,
until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came in sight of
the easygoing blue coupé.

"Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool," suggested Jordan.
"I love New York on summer afternoons when every one's away. There's
something very sensuous about it--overripe, as if all sorts of funny
fruits were going to fall into your hands."

The word "sensuous" had the effect of further disquieting Tom but before
he could invent a protest the coupé came to a stop and Daisy signalled us
to draw up alongside.

"Where are we going?" she cried.

"How about the movies?"

"It's so hot," she complained. "You go. We'll ride around and meet you
after." With an effort her wit rose faintly, "We'll meet you on some
corner. I'll be the man smoking two cigarettes."

"We can't argue about it here," Tom said impatiently as a truck gave
out a cursing whistle behind us. "You follow me to the south side of
Central Park, in front of the Plaza."

Several times he turned his head and looked back for their car,
and if the traffic delayed them he slowed up until they came into
sight. I think he was afraid they would dart down a side street and out
of his life forever.

But they didn't. And we all took the less explicable step of engaging
the parlor of a suite in the Plaza Hotel.

The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended by herding us into
that room eludes me, though I have a sharp physical memory that, in the
course of it, my underwear kept climbing like a damp snake around my
legs and intermittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back. The
notion originated with Daisy's suggestion that we hire five bathrooms
and take cold baths, and then assumed more tangible form as "a place to
have a mint julep." Each of us said over and over that it was a "crazy
idea"--we all talked at once to a baffled clerk and thought, or
pretended to think, that we were being very funny. . . .

The room was large and stifling, and, though it was already four
o'clock, opening the windows admitted only a gust of hot shrubbery from
the Park. Daisy went to the mirror and stood with her back to us,
fixing her hair.

"It's a swell suite," whispered Jordan respectfully and every one
laughed.

"Open another window," commanded Daisy, without turning around.

"There aren't any more."

"Well, we'd better telephone for an axe----"

"The thing to do is to forget about the heat," said Tom impatiently.
"You make it ten times worse by crabbing about it."

He unrolled the bottle of whiskey from the towel and put it on the table.

"Why not let her alone, old sport?" remarked Gatsby. "You're the one that
wanted to come to town."

There was a moment of silence. The telephone book slipped from its nail
and splashed to the floor, whereupon Jordan whispered "Excuse me"--but
this time no one laughed.

"I'll pick it up," I offered.

"I've got it." Gatsby examined the parted string, muttered "Hum!" in an
interested way, and tossed the book on a chair.

"That's a great expression of yours, isn't it?" said Tom sharply.

"What is?"

"All this 'old sport' business. Where'd you pick that up?"

"Now see here, Tom," said Daisy, turning around from the mirror, "if
you're going to make personal remarks I won't stay here a minute. Call
up and order some ice for the mint julep."

As Tom took up the receiver the compressed heat exploded into sound and
we were listening to the portentous chords of Mendelssohn's Wedding March
from the ballroom below.

"Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!" cried Jordan dismally.

"Still--I was married in the middle of June," Daisy remembered,
"Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Who was it fainted, Tom?"

"Biloxi," he answered shortly.

"A man named Biloxi. 'Blocks' Biloxi, and he made boxes--that's a
fact--and he was from Biloxi, Tennessee."

"They carried him into my house," appended Jordan, "because we lived
just two doors from the church. And he stayed three weeks, until Daddy
told him he had to get out. The day after he left Daddy died." After a
moment she added as if she might have sounded irreverent, "There
wasn't any connection."

"I used to know a Bill Biloxi from Memphis," I remarked.

"That was his cousin. I knew his whole family history before he left.
He gave me an aluminum putter that I use today."

The music had died down as the ceremony began and now a long cheer floated
in at the window, followed by intermittent cries of "Yea--ea--ea!"
and finally by a burst of jazz as the dancing began.

"We're getting old," said Daisy. "If we were young we'd rise and dance."

"Remember Biloxi," Jordan warned her. "Where'd you know him, Tom?"

"Biloxi?" He concentrated with an effort. "I didn't know him. He was a
friend of Daisy's."

"He was not," she denied. "I'd never seen him before. He came down in
the private car."

"Well, he said he knew you. He said he was raised in Louisville.
Asa Bird brought him around at the last minute and asked if we had room
for him."

Jordan smiled.

"He was probably bumming his way home. He told me he was president of
your class at Yale."

Tom and I looked at each other blankly.

"BilOxi?"

"First place, we didn't have any president----"

Gatsby's foot beat a short, restless tattoo and Tom eyed him suddenly.

"By the way, Mr. Gatsby, I understand you're an Oxford man."

"Not exactly."

"Oh, yes, I understand you went to Oxford."

"Yes--I went there."

A pause. Then Tom's voice, incredulous and insulting:

"You must have gone there about the time Biloxi went to New Haven."

Another pause. A waiter knocked and came in with crushed mint and ice but
the silence was unbroken by his "Thank you" and the soft closing of the
door. This tremendous detail was to be cleared up at last.

"I told you I went there," said Gatsby.

"I heard you, but I'd like to know when."

"It was in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed five months. That's why I
can't really call myself an Oxford man."

Tom glanced around to see if we mirrored his unbelief. But we were all
looking at Gatsby.

"It was an opportunity they gave to some of the officers after the
Armistice," he continued. "We could go to any of the universities in
England or France."

I wanted to get up and slap him on the back. I had one of those renewals
of complete faith in him that I'd experienced before.

Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.

"Open the whiskey, Tom," she ordered. "And I'll make you a mint julep.
Then you won't seem so stupid to yourself. . . . Look at the mint!"

"Wait a minute," snapped Tom, "I want to ask Mr. Gatsby one more
question."

"Go on," Gatsby said politely.

"What kind of a row are you trying to cause in my house anyhow?"

They were out in the open at last and Gatsby was content.

"He isn't causing a row." Daisy looked desperately from one to the
other. "You're causing a row. Please have a little self control."

"Self control!" repeated Tom incredulously. "I suppose the latest thing
is to sit back and let Mr. Nobody from Nowhere make love to your wife.
Well, if that's the idea you can count me out. . . . Nowadays people begin
by sneering at family life and family institutions and next they'll
throw everything overboard and have intermarriage between black
and white."

Flushed with his impassioned gibberish he saw himself standing alone on
the last barrier of civilization.

"We're all white here," murmured Jordan.

"I know I'm not very popular. I don't give big parties. I suppose
you've got to make your house into a pigsty in order to have any
friends--in the modern world."

Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laugh whenever he opened
his mouth. The transition from libertine to prig was so complete.

"I've got something to tell YOU, old sport,----" began Gatsby. But Daisy
guessed at his intention.

"Please don't!" she interrupted helplessly. "Please let's all go home.
Why don't we all go home?"