

"Who oughtn't to?" inquired Daisy coldly.

"Her family."

"Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Besides, Nick's
going to look after her, aren't you, Nick? She's going to spend lots of
week-ends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be very
good for her."

Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in silence.

"Is she from New York?" I asked quickly.

"From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed together there. Our
beautiful white----"

"Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the veranda?"
demanded Tom suddenly.

"Did I?" She looked at me. "I can't seem to remember, but I think
we talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I'm sure we did. It sort of
crept up on us and first thing you know----"

"Don't believe everything you hear, Nick," he advised me.

I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes later
I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood side by
side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor Daisy
peremptorily called "Wait!

"I forgot to ask you something, and it's important. We heard you were
engaged to a girl out West."

"That's right," corroborated Tom kindly. "We heard that you were
engaged."

"It's libel. I'm too poor."

"But we heard it," insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening up again in
a flower-like way. "We heard it from three people so it must be true."

Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn't even vaguely
engaged. The fact that gossip had published the banns was one of the
reasons I had come east. You can't stop going with an old friend on
account of rumors and on the other hand I had no intention of being
rumored into marriage.

Their interest rather touched me and made them less remotely
rich--nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove
away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to do was to rush out of
the house, child in arms--but apparently there were no such intentions
in her head. As for Tom, the fact that he "had some woman in New York"
was really less surprising than that he had been depressed by a book.
Something was making him nibble at the edge of stale ideas as if his
sturdy physical egotism no longer nourished his peremptory heart.

Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs and in front of wayside
garages, where new red gas-pumps sat out in pools of light, and when I
reached my estate at West Egg I ran the car under its shed and sat for
a while on an abandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had blown
off, leaving a loud bright night with wings beating in the trees and
a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earth blew the
frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered across the
moonlight and turning my head to watch it I saw that I was not
alone--fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the shadow of my
neighbor's mansion and was standing with his hands in his pockets
regarding the silver pepper of the stars. Something in his leisurely
movements and the secure position of his feet upon the lawn suggested
that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was
his of our local heavens.

I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned him at dinner, and
that would do for an introduction. But I didn't call to him for he gave
a sudden intimation that he was content to be alone--he stretched out his
arms toward the dark water in a curious way, and far as I was from him
I could have sworn he was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced seaward--and
distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute and far away,
that might have been the end of a dock. When I looked once more for Gatsby
he had vanished, and I was alone again in the unquiet darkness.




Chapter 2



About half way between West Egg and New York the motor-road hastily
joins the railroad and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as to
shrink away from a certain desolate area of land. This is a valley of
ashes--a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and
hills and grotesque gardens where ashes take the forms of houses and
chimneys and rising smoke and finally, with a transcendent effort, of
men who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery air.
Occasionally a line of grey cars crawls along an invisible track, gives
out a ghastly creak and comes to rest, and immediately the ash-grey
men swarm up with leaden spades and stir up an impenetrable cloud
which screens their obscure operations from your sight.

But above the grey land and the spasms of bleak dust which drift
endlessly over it, you perceive, after a moment, the eyes of Doctor T.
J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg are blue and
gigantic--their retinas are one yard high. They look out of no face but,
instead, from a pair of enormous yellow spectacles which pass over a
nonexistent nose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set them there to
fatten his practice in the borough of Queens, and then sank down himself
into eternal blindness or forgot them and moved away. But his eyes,
dimmed a little by many paintless days under sun and rain, brood on over
the solemn dumping ground.

The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul river, and
when the drawbridge is up to let barges through, the passengers on
waiting trains can stare at the dismal scene for as long as half an
hour. There is always a halt there of at least a minute and it was
because of this that I first met Tom Buchanan's mistress.

The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever he was known. His
acquaintances resented the fact that he turned up in popular
restaurants with her and, leaving her at a table, sauntered about,
chatting with whomsoever he knew. Though I was curious to see her I
had no desire to meet her--but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on
the train one afternoon and when we stopped by the ashheaps he jumped
to his feet and taking hold of my elbow literally forced me from the
car.

"We're getting off!" he insisted. "I want you to meet my girl."

I think he'd tanked up a good deal at luncheon and his determination to
have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption was that
on Sunday afternoon I had nothing better to do.

I followed him over a low white-washed railroad fence and we walked
back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor Eckleburg's persistent
stare. The only building in sight was a small block of yellow brick
sitting on the edge of the waste land, a sort of compact Main Street
ministering to it and contiguous to absolutely nothing. One of the
three shops it contained was for rent and another was an all-night
restaurant approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a
garage--Repairs. GEORGE B. WILSON. Cars Bought and Sold--and I followed
Tom inside.

The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car visible was the
dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouched in a dim corner. It had
occurred to me that this shadow of a garage must be a blind and that
sumptuous and romantic apartments were concealed overhead when the
proprietor himself appeared in the door of an office, wiping his hands
on a piece of waste. He was a blonde, spiritless man, anaemic, and
faintly handsome. When he saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into his
light blue eyes.

"Hello, Wilson, old man," said Tom, slapping him jovially on the
shoulder. "How's business?"

"I can't complain," answered Wilson unconvincingly. "When are you going
to sell me that car?"

"Next week; I've got my man working on it now."

"Works pretty slow, don't he?"

"No, he doesn't," said Tom coldly. "And if you feel that way about it,
maybe I'd better sell it somewhere else after all."

"I don't mean that," explained Wilson quickly. "I just meant----"

His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the garage. Then
I heard footsteps on a stairs and in a moment the thickish figure of a
woman blocked out the light from the office door. She was in the middle
thirties, and faintly stout, but she carried her surplus flesh sensuously
as some women can. Her face, above a spotted dress of dark blue
crepe-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty but there was an
immediately perceptible vitality about her as if the nerves of her body
were continually smouldering. She smiled slowly and walking through her
husband as if he were a ghost shook hands with Tom, looking him flush in
the eye. Then she wet her lips and without turning around spoke to her
husband in a soft, coarse voice:

"Get some chairs, why don't you, so somebody can sit down."

"Oh, sure," agreed Wilson hurriedly and went toward the little office,
mingling immediately with the cement color of the walls. A white ashen
dust veiled his dark suit and his pale hair as it veiled everything in
the vicinity--except his wife, who moved close to Tom.

"I want to see you," said Tom intently. "Get on the next train."

"All right."

"I'll meet you by the news-stand on the lower level."

She nodded and moved away from him just as George Wilson
emerged with two chairs from his office door.

We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a few days before
the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was setting
torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.

"Terrible place, isn't it," said Tom, exchanging a frown with Doctor
Eckleburg.

"Awful."

"It does her good to get away."

"Doesn't her husband object?"

"Wilson? He thinks she goes to see her sister in New York. He's so dumb
he doesn't know he's alive."

So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up together to New York--or not
quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom
deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might be
on the train.

She had changed her dress to a brown figured muslin which stretched
tight over her rather wide hips as Tom helped her to the platform in
New York. At the news-stand she bought a copy of "Town Tattle" and a
moving-picture magazine and, in the station drug store, some cold cream
and a small flask of perfume. Upstairs, in the solemn echoing drive
she let four taxi cabs drive away before she selected a new one,
lavender-colored with grey upholstery, and in this we slid out from the
mass of the station into the glowing sunshine. But immediately she
turned sharply from the window and leaning forward tapped on the
front glass.

"I want to get one of those dogs," she said earnestly. "I want to get one
for the apartment. They're nice to have--a dog."

We backed up to a grey old man who bore an absurd resemblance to John
D. Rockefeller. In a basket, swung from his neck, cowered a dozen very
recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.

"What kind are they?" asked Mrs. Wilson eagerly as he came to the
taxi-window.

"All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?"

"I'd like to get one of those police dogs; I don't suppose you got that
kind?"

The man peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged in his hand and drew
one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.

"That's no police dog," said Tom.

"No, it's not exactly a polICE dog," said the man with disappointment
in his voice. "It's more of an airedale." He passed his hand over the
brown wash-rag of a back. "Look at that coat. Some coat. That's a dog
that'll never bother you with catching cold."

"I think it's cute," said Mrs. Wilson enthusiastically. "How much is it?"

"That dog?" He looked at it admiringly. "That dog will cost you ten
dollars."

The airedale--undoubtedly there was an airedale concerned in it somewhere
though its feet were startlingly white--changed hands and settled down
into Mrs. Wilson's lap, where she fondled the weather-proof coat with
rapture.

"Is it a boy or a girl?" she asked delicately.

"That dog? That dog's a boy."

"It's a bitch," said Tom decisively. "Here's your money. Go and buy ten
more dogs with it."

We drove over to Fifth Avenue, so warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the
summer Sunday afternoon that I wouldn't have been surprised to see a great
flock of white sheep turn the corner.

"Hold on," I said, "I have to leave you here."

"No, you don't," interposed Tom quickly. "Myrtle'll be hurt if you don't
come up to the apartment. Won't you,
Myrtle?"

"Come on," she urged. "I'll telephone my sister Catherine. She's said to
be very beautiful by people who ought to know."

"Well, I'd like to, but----"

We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the West Hundreds.
At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in a long white cake of
apartment houses. Throwing a regal homecoming glance around the
neighborhood, Mrs. Wilson gathered up her dog and her other purchases
and went haughtily in.

"I'm going to have the McKees come up," she announced as we rose in the
elevator. "And of course I got to call up my sister, too."

The apartment was on the top floor--a small living room, a small
dining room, a small bedroom and a bath. The living room was crowded to
the doors with a set of tapestried furniture entirely too large for it
so that to move about was to stumble continually over scenes of
ladies swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was
an over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred
rock. Looked at from a distance however the hen resolved itself
into a bonnet and the countenance of a stout old lady beamed down
into the room. Several old copies of "Town Tattle "lay on the table
together with a copy of "Simon Called Peter" and some of the small
scandal magazines of Broadway. Mrs. Wilson was first concerned with
the dog. A reluctant elevator boy went for a box full of straw and
some milk to which he added on his own initiative a tin of large
hard dog biscuits--one of which decomposed apathetically in the saucer
of milk all afternoon. Meanwhile Tom brought out a bottle of whiskey
from a locked bureau door.

I have been drunk just twice in my life and the second time was that
afternoon so everything that happened has a dim hazy cast over it
although until after eight o'clock the apartment was full of cheerful
sun. Sitting on Tom's lap Mrs. Wilson called up several people on the
telephone; then there were no cigarettes and I went out to buy some at
the drug store on the corner. When I came back they had disappeared so
I sat down discreetly in the living room and read a chapter of "Simon
Called Peter"--either it was terrible stuff or the whiskey distorted
things because it didn't make any sense to me.

Just as Tom and Myrtle--after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and I called
each other by our first names--reappeared, company commenced to arrive
at the apartment door.

The sister, Catherine, was a slender, worldly girl of about thirty
with a solid sticky bob of red hair and a complexion powdered milky
white. Her eyebrows had been plucked and then drawn on again at a more
rakish angle but the efforts of nature toward the restoration of the
old alignment gave a blurred air to her face. When she moved about
there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets
jingled up and down upon her arms. She came in with such a proprietary
haste and looked around so possessively at the furniture that I wondered
if she lived here. But when I asked her she laughed immoderately, repeated
my question aloud and told me she lived with a girl friend at a hotel.

Mr. McKee was a pale feminine man from the flat below. He had just
shaved for there was a white spot of lather on his cheekbone and he
was most respectful in his greeting to everyone in the room. He
informed me that he was in the "artistic game" and I gathered later
that he was a photographer and had made the dim enlargement of Mrs.
Wilson's mother which hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. His wife
was shrill, languid, handsome and horrible. She told me with pride
that her husband had photographed her a hundred and twenty-seven times
since they had been married.

Mrs. Wilson had changed her costume some time before and was now
attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of cream colored chiffon, which
gave out a continual rustle as she swept about the room.
With the influence of the dress her personality had also undergone a
change. The intense vitality that had been so remarkable in the garage
was converted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures, her
assertions became more violently affected moment by moment and as she
expanded the room grew smaller around her until she seemed to be
revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.
