
He rang off.

"Come here QUICK!" cried Daisy at the window.

The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted in the west,
and there was a pink and golden billow of foamy clouds above the sea.

"Look at that," she whispered, and then after a moment: "I'd like to
just get one of those pink clouds and put you in it and push you
around."

I tried to go then, but they wouldn't hear of it; perhaps my presence
made them feel more satisfactorily alone.

"I know what we'll do," said Gatsby, "we'll have Klipspringer play the
piano."

He went out of the room calling "Ewing!" and returned in a few
minutes accompanied by an embarrassed, slightly worn young man with
shell-rimmed glasses and scanty blonde hair. He was now decently clothed
in a "sport shirt" open at the neck, sneakers and duck trousers of a
nebulous hue.

"Did we interrupt your exercises?" inquired Daisy politely.

"I was asleep," cried Mr. Klipspringer, in a spasm of embarrassment.
"That is, I'd BEEN asleep. Then I got up. . . ."

"Klipspringer plays the piano," said Gatsby, cutting him off. "Don't you,
Ewing, old sport?"

"I don't play well. I don't--I hardly play at all. I'm all out of
prac----"

"We'll go downstairs," interrupted Gatsby. He flipped a switch. The
grey windows disappeared as the house glowed full of light.

In the music room Gatsby turned on a solitary lamp beside the piano. He
lit Daisy's cigarette from a trembling match, and sat down with her on
a couch far across the room where there was no light save what the
gleaming floor bounced in from the hall.

When Klipspringer had played "The Love Nest" he turned around on the
bench and searched unhappily for Gatsby in the gloom.

"I'm all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn't play. I'm all
out of prac----"

"Don't talk so much, old sport," commanded Gatsby. "Play!"


    IN THE MORNING,
    IN THE EVENING,
       AIN'T WE GOT FUN----

Outside the wind was loud and there was a faint flow of thunder along the
Sound. All the lights were going on in West Egg now; the electric trains,
men-carrying, were plunging home through the rain from New York. It was
the hour of a profound human change, and excitement was generating on
the air.


    ONE THING'S SURE AND NOTHING'S SURER
    THE RICH GET RICHER AND THE POOR GET--CHILDREN.
       IN THE MEANTIME,
       IN BETWEEN TIME----


As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression of bewilderment
had come back into Gatsby's face, as though a faint doubt had occurred to
him as to the quality of his present happiness. Almost five
years! There must have been moments even that afternoon when
Daisy tumbled short of his dreams--not through her own fault but
because of the colossal vitality of his illusion. It had gone beyond
her, beyond everything. He had thrown himself into it with a creative
passion, adding to it all the time, decking it out with every bright
feather that drifted his way. No amount of fire or freshness can
challenge what a man will store up in his ghostly heart.

As I watched him he adjusted himself a little, visibly. His hand took
hold of hers and as she said something low in his ear he turned toward
her with a rush of emotion. I think that voice held him most with its
fluctuating, feverish warmth because it couldn't be over-dreamed--that
voice was a deathless song.

They had forgotten me, but Daisy glanced up and held out her hand;
Gatsby didn't know me now at all. I looked once more at them and they
looked back at me, remotely, possessed by intense life. Then I went out
of the room and down the marble steps into the rain, leaving them there
together.




Chapter 6



About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one
morning at Gatsby's door and asked him if he had anything to say.

"Anything to say about what?" inquired Gatsby politely.

"Why,--any statement to give out."

It transpired after a confused five minutes that the man had heard
Gatsby's name around his office in a connection which he either
wouldn't reveal or didn't fully understand. This was his day off
and with laudable initiative he had hurried out "to see."

It was a random shot, and yet the reporter's instinct was right. Gatsby's
notoriety, spread about by the hundreds who had accepted his
hospitality and so become authorities on his past, had increased
all summer until he fell just short of being news. Contemporary
legends such as the "underground pipe-line to Canada" attached
themselves to him, and there was one persistent story that he
didn't live in a house at all, but in a boat that looked like a house
and was moved secretly up and down the Long Island shore. Just why
these inventions were a source of satisfaction to James Gatz of North
Dakota, isn't easy to say.

James Gatz--that was really, or at least legally, his name. He had
changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that
witnessed the beginning of his career--when he saw Dan Cody's yacht drop
anchor over the most insidious flat on Lake Superior. It was James Gatz
who had been loafing along the beach that afternoon in a torn green
jersey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay Gatsby who
borrowed a row-boat, pulled out to the TUOLOMEE and informed Cody that
a wind might catch him and break him up in half an hour.

I suppose he'd had the name ready for a long time, even then. His
parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people--his imagination had
never really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was that
Jay Gatsby, of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic
conception of himself. He was a son of God--a phrase which, if it means
anything, means just that--and he must be about His Father's Business,
the service of a vast, vulgar and meretricious beauty. So he invented
just the sort of Jay Gatsby that a seventeen-year-old boy would be
likely to invent, and to this conception he was faithful to the end.

For over a year he had been beating his way along the south shore of
Lake Superior as a clam digger and a salmon fisher or in any other
capacity that brought him food and bed. His brown, hardening body lived
naturally through the half fierce, half lazy work of the bracing days.
He knew women early and since they spoiled him he became contemptuous
of them, of young virgins because they were ignorant, of the others
because they were hysterical about things which in his overwhelming
self-absorption he took for granted.

But his heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The most grotesque
and fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed at night. A universe
of ineffable gaudiness spun itself out in his brain while the
clock ticked on the wash-stand and the moon soaked with wet
light his tangled clothes upon the floor. Each night he added to the
pattern of his fancies until drowsiness closed down upon some vivid
scene with an oblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided an
outlet for his imagination; they were a satisfactory hint of the
unreality of reality, a promise that the rock of the world was founded
securely on a fairy's wing.

An instinct toward his future glory had led him, some months before, to
the small Lutheran college of St. Olaf in southern Minnesota. He stayed
there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the drums of
his destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor's work with
which he was to pay his way through. Then he drifted back to Lake
Superior, and he was still searching for something to do on the day
that Dan Cody's yacht dropped anchor in the shallows along shore.

Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevada silver fields,
of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since Seventy-five. The
transactions in Montana copper that made him many times a millionaire
found him physically robust but on the verge of soft-mindedness, and,
suspecting this an infinite number of women tried to separate him from
his money. The none too savory ramifications by which Ella Kaye, the
newspaper woman, played Madame de Maintenon to his weakness and sent him
to sea in a yacht, were common knowledge to the turgid journalism
of 1902. He had been coasting along all too hospitable shores for five
years when he turned up as James Gatz's destiny at Little Girl Bay.

To the young Gatz, resting on his oars and looking up at the railed
deck, the yacht represented all the beauty and glamor in the world. I
suppose he smiled at Cody--he had probably discovered that people liked
him when he smiled. At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of
them elicited the brand new name) and found that he was quick, and
extravagantly ambitious. A few days later he took him to Duluth and
bought him a blue coat, six pair of white duck trousers and a yachting
cap. And when the TUOLOMEE left for the West Indies and the Barbary
Coast Gatsby left too.

He was employed in a vague personal capacity--while he remained with
Cody he was in turn steward, mate, skipper, secretary, and even jailor,
for Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk might soon be
about and he provided for such contingencies by reposing more and more
trust in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five years during which the
boat went three times around the continent. It might have lasted
indefinitely except for the fact that Ella Kaye came on board one night
in Boston and a week later Dan Cody inhospitably died.

I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby's bedroom, a grey, florid
man with a hard empty face--the pioneer debauchee who during one phase
of American life brought back to the eastern seaboard the savage
violence of the frontier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to
Cody that Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay parties
women used to rub champagne into his hair; for himself he formed the
habit of letting liquor alone.

And it was from Cody that he inherited money--a legacy of twenty-five
thousand dollars. He didn't get it. He never understood the legal
device that was used against him but what remained of the millions
went intact to Ella Kaye. He was left with his singularly appropriate
education; the vague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the
substantiality of a man.


He told me all this very much later, but I've put it down here with the
idea of exploding those first wild rumors about his antecedents, which
weren't even faintly true. Moreover he told it to me at a time of
confusion, when I had reached the point of believing everything and
nothing about him. So I take advantage of this short halt, while
Gatsby, so to speak, caught his breath, to clear this set of
misconceptions away.

It was a halt, too, in my association with his affairs. For
several weeks I didn't see him or hear his voice on the phone--mostly
I was in New York, trotting around with Jordan and trying to
ingratiate myself with her senile aunt--but finally I went over to
his house one Sunday afternoon. I hadn't been there two minutes when
somebody brought Tom Buchanan in for a drink. I was startled,
naturally, but the really surprising thing was that it hadn't happened
before.

They were a party of three on horseback--Tom and a man named Sloane and
a pretty woman in a brown riding habit who had been there previously.

"I'm delighted to see you," said Gatsby standing on his porch.
"I'm delighted that you dropped in."

As though they cared!

"Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar." He walked around the room
quickly, ringing bells. "I'll have something to drink for you in just
a minute."

He was profoundly affected by the fact that Tom was there. But he would be
uneasy anyhow until he had given them something, realizing in a vague
way that that was all they came for. Mr. Sloane wanted nothing. A
lemonade? No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all,
thanks. . . . I'm sorry----

"Did you have a nice ride?"

"Very good roads around here."

"I suppose the automobiles----"

"Yeah."

Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tom who had accepted
the introduction as a stranger.

"I believe we've met somewhere before, Mr. Buchanan."

"Oh, yes," said Tom, gruffly polite but obviously not remembering.
"So we did. I remember very well."

"About two weeks ago."

"That's right. You were with Nick here."

"I know your wife," continued Gatsby, almost aggressively.

"That so?"

Tom turned to me.

"You live near here, Nick?"

"Next door."

"That so?"

Mr. Sloane didn't enter into the conversation but lounged back haughtily
in his chair; the woman said nothing either--until unexpectedly, after
two highballs, she became cordial.

"We'll all come over to your next party, Mr. Gatsby," she suggested.
"What do you say?"

"Certainly. I'd be delighted to have you."

"Be ver' nice," said Mr. Sloane, without gratitude. "Well--think ought to
be starting home."

"Please don't hurry," Gatsby urged them. He had control of himself now
and he wanted to see more of Tom. "Why don't you--why don't you stay for
supper? I wouldn't be surprised if some other people dropped in from
New York."

"You come to supper with ME," said the lady enthusiastically.
"Both of you."

This included me. Mr. Sloane got to his feet.

"Come along," he said--but to her only.

"I mean it," she insisted. "I'd love to have you. Lots of room."

Gatsby looked at me questioningly. He wanted to go and he didn't see
that Mr. Sloane had determined he shouldn't.

"I'm afraid I won't be able to," I said.

"Well, you come," she urged, concentrating on Gatsby.

Mr. Sloane murmured something close to her ear.

"We won't be late if we start now," she insisted aloud.

"I haven't got a horse," said Gatsby. "I used to ride in the army but
I've never bought a horse. I'll have to follow you in my car. Excuse me
for just a minute."

The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane and the lady began
an impassioned conversation aside.

"My God, I believe the man's coming," said Tom. "Doesn't he know she
doesn't want him?"

"She says she does want him."

"She has a big dinner party and he won't know a soul there." He frowned.
"I wonder where in the devil he met Daisy. By God, I may be
old-fashioned in my ideas, but women run around too much these days to
suit me. They meet all kinds of crazy fish."

Suddenly Mr. Sloane and the lady walked down the steps and mounted
their horses.