
Before I could reply that he was my neighbor dinner was announced;
wedging his tense arm imperatively under mine Tom Buchanan compelled
me from the room as though he were moving a checker to another square.

Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips the two
young women preceded us out onto a rosy-colored porch open toward the
sunset where four candles flickered on the table in the diminished
wind.

"Why CANDLES?" objected Daisy, frowning. She snapped them out with her
fingers. "In two weeks it'll be the longest day in the year."
She looked at us all radiantly. "Do you always watch for the longest day
of the year and then miss it? I always watch for the longest day in the
year and then miss it."

"We ought to plan something," yawned Miss Baker, sitting down at the
table as if she were getting into bed.

"All right," said Daisy. "What'll we plan?" She turned to me helplessly.
"What do people plan?"

Before I could answer her eyes fastened with an awed expression on her
little finger.

"Look!" she complained. "I hurt it."

We all looked--the knuckle was black and blue.

"You did it, Tom," she said accusingly. "I know you didn't mean to
but you DID do it. That's what I get for marrying a brute of a man,
a great big hulking physical specimen of a----"

"I hate that word hulking," objected Tom crossly, "even in kidding."

"Hulking," insisted Daisy.

Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtrusively and with a
bantering inconsequence that was never quite chatter, that was as cool
as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all
desire. They were here--and they accepted Tom and me, making only a
polite pleasant effort to entertain or to be entertained. They knew
that presently dinner would be over and a little later the evening too
would be over and casually put away. It was sharply different from the
West where an evening was hurried from phase to phase toward its
close in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in sheer
nervous dread of the moment itself.

"You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy," I confessed on my second glass
of corky but rather impressive claret. "Can't you talk about crops or
something?"

I meant nothing in particular by this remark but it was taken up in an
unexpected way.

"Civilization's going to pieces," broke out Tom violently.
"I've gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read
'The Rise of the Coloured Empires' by this man Goddard?"

"Why, no," I answered, rather surprised by his tone.

"Well, it's a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is if
we don't look out the white race will be--will be utterly submerged.
It's all scientific stuff; it's been proved."

"Tom's getting very profound," said Daisy with an expression of
unthoughtful sadness. "He reads deep books with long words in them.
What was that word we----"

"Well, these books are all scientific," insisted Tom, glancing at her
impatiently. "This fellow has worked out the whole thing. It's up to us
who are the dominant race to watch out or these other races will have
control of things."

"We've got to beat them down," whispered Daisy, winking ferociously
toward the fervent sun.

"You ought to live in California--" began Miss Baker but Tom
interrupted her by shifting heavily in his chair.

"This idea is that we're Nordics. I am, and you are and you are
and----" After an infinitesimal hesitation he included Daisy with a
slight nod and she winked at me again. "--and we've produced all the
things that go to make civilization--oh, science and art and all that.
Do you see?"